<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Errata</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/keyforge.css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Errata</h1>

		<p>
			This section contains the official errata that have been made to individual
			cards in KeyForge. Errata overrides the printed information on the card it
			applies to.
		</p>

		<ul>
			<li>
				Call of the Archons (CoTA)
				<ul>
					<li>
						Dis
						<ul>
							<li><a href="#errata_cota064">Tendrils of Pain</a></li>
						</ul>
					</li>
					<li>
						Logos
						<ul>
							<li><a href="#errata_cota115">Library Access</a></li>
							<li><a href="#errata_cota157">Experimental Therapy</a></li>
						</ul>
					</li>
					<li>
						Mars
						<ul>
							<li><a href="#errata_cota208">Biomatrix Backup</a></li>
						</ul>
					</li>
					<li>
						Shadows
						<ul>
							<li><a href="#errata_cota267">Bait and Switch</a></li>
							<li><a href="#errata_cota303">Magda the Rat</a></li>
						</ul>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>
				Age of Ascension (AoA)
				<ul>
					<li>
						Brobnar
						<ul>
							<li><a href="#errata_aoa006">Drummernaut</a></li>
						</ul>
					</li>
					<li>
						Dis
						<ul>
							<li><a href="#errata_aoa078">Pain Reaction</a></li>
						</ul>
					</li>
					<li>
						Mars
						<ul>
							<li><a href="#errata_aoa210">Yzphyz Knowdrone</a></li>
						</ul>
					</li>
					<li>
						Shadows
						<ul>
							<li><a href="#errata_aoa273">Life for a Life</a></li>
						</ul>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>
				Words Collide (WC)
				<ul>
					<li>
						Saurian
						<ul>
							<li><a href="#errata_wc214">Auto-Legionary</a></li>
						</ul>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
		</ul>

		<dl id="errata">
			<dt><a id="errata_cota064">Tendrils of Pain (CoTA 64)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				Play: Deal 1 to each creature. Deal 4 to each creature instead if your opponent forged a key on their previous turn.
			</dd>

			<dt><a id="errata_cota115">Library Access (CoTA 115)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				Play: For the remainder of the turn, each time you play another card, draw a card. Purge Library Access.
			</dd>

			<dt><a id="errata_cota157">Experimental Therapy (CoTA 157)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				This creature may be used as if it belonged to the active house.
				Play: Stun and exhaust this creature.
			</dd>

			<dt><a id="errata_cota208">Biomatrix Backup (CoTA 208)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				This creature gains,”Destroyed: Put this creature into its owner’s archives.”
			</dd>

			<dt><a id="errata_cota267">Bait and Switch (CoTA 267)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				Play: If your opponent has more  than you, steal 1.
				Repeat the preceding effect if your opponent still has more  than you.
			</dd>

			<dt><a id="errata_cota303">Magda the Rat (CoTA 303)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				Elusive. Play: Steal 2. If Magda the Rat leaves play, your opponent steals 2.
			</dd>

			<dt><a id="errata_aoa006">Drummernaut (AoA 6)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				Play/Fight/Reap: Return another friendly Giant creature to your hand.
			</dd>

			<dt><a id="errata_aoa078">Pain Reaction (AoA 78)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				Deal 2 to an enemy creature. If this damage destroys that creature, deal 2 to each of that creature’s neighbors after it leaves play.
			</dd>

			<dt><a id="errata_aoa210">Yzphyz Knowdrone (AoA 210)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				Play: Archive a card. You may purge an archived card. If you do, stun a creature.
			</dd>

			<dt><a id="errata_aoa273">Life for a Life (AoA 273)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				Play: Sacrifice a creature. If you do, deal 6 to a creature.
			</dd>

			<dt><a id="errata_wc214">Auto-Legionary (WC 214)</a></dt>
			<dd>
				Action: Put Auto-Legionary on a flank of your battleline.
				While in the battleline, it is considered a creature with 5 power and may
				be used as if it belonged to the active house.
			</dd>
		</dl>
	</body>
</html>