<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Errata</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/keyforge.css"/>
		<style type="text/css">
			h2 {
				margin-top: 2.5em;
				text-decoration: underline dotted black;
				text-transform: none;
			}
		</style>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Frequently Asked Questions</h1>

		<p>
			This section provides answers to a number of common questions that are
			asked about the game. These questions are presented in a “Question
			and Answer” format, arranged into broader categories.
		</p>

		<ul>
			<li>0-Power Creatures</li>
			<li>Alpha</li>
			<li>Archives</li>
			<li>Armor</li>
			<li>"As If It Were"</li>
			<li>Bait and Switch</li>
			<li>Bonus Icons</li>
			<li>Chains</li>
			<li>"Destroyed:" Effects</li>
			<li>Do As Much As You Can</li>
			<li>Drecker</li>
			<li>Elusive</li>
			<li>Faygin</li>
			<li>First Turn Rule</li>
			<li>Flank</li>
			<li>"For Each"</li>
			<li>Key Hammer</li>
			<li>Leaves Play (Spangler Box)</li>
			<li>Lethal Distraction</li>
			<li>Library Access</li>
			<li>Little Niff</li>
			<li>Mimic Gel</li>
			<li>Moving Creatures</li>
			<li>Neutron Shark</li>
			<li>Phase Shift</li>
			<li>Pitlord</li>
			<li>[REDACTED]</li>
			<li>Replacement Effects</li>
			<li>Rule of Six</li>
			<li>Shadow of Dis</li>
			<li>Shoulder Id</li>
			<li>Sir Marrows</li>
			<li>Stun</li>
			<li>Survey</li>
			<li>"This Way"</li>
			<li>Timing</li>
			<li>Using Creatures</li>
			<li>Waking Nightmare</li>
			<li>Wild Wormhole &amp; Kelifi Dragon</li>
		</ul>

		<ul>
			<li>
				0-Power Creatures
				<ul>
					<li>I play King of the Crag (CoTA 038) while my opponent has a Looter Goblin (CoTA 041) in play. What happens?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Alpha
				<ul>
					<li>Can I play Mimicry (CoTA 328) as a copy of Eureka (AoA 128) if I have already played another card this turn?</li>
					<li>Can I play Mimicry (CoTA 328) as a copy of Eureka (AoA 128) as the first thing I do during step 3 of my turn?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Archives
				<ul>
					<li>My opponent puts two of my creatures into their archives using the card Sample Collection (CoTA 175). On my next turn I play the card Dysania (CoTA 141). What happens?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Armor
				<ul>
					<li>My opponent puts two of my creatures into their archives using the card Sample Collection (CoTA 175). On my next turn I play the card Dysania (CoTA 141). What happens?</li>
					<li>I use my Hallowed Shield (AoA 218) to protect my Maruck the Marked (AoA 220) from damage and then I attack my opponent’s 3-power creature. Do I capture an Æember with Maruck’s ability?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>"As If It Were"
				<ul>
					<li>I reap with Nexus (CoTA 305), which allows me to use an opponent’s artifact “as if it were” mine. I choose to use my opponent’s Shard of Greed (AoA 315), which lets me gain 1 Æmber “for each friendly Shard.” Shard of Greed is the only Shard in play. How much Æmber do I gain?</li>
					<li>I reap with Replicator (CoTA 150), and use its ability to trigger the reap effect of my opponent’s Sequis (CoTA 257) as if I controlled it. Which player’s pool does Sequis capture Æmber from?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Bait and Switch
				<ul>
					<li>My opponent has 14 Æmber in their pool and I have 0 in mine. At the start of my turn I select Shadows as the active house and play the card Bait and Switch (CoTA 267). How many times does Bait and Switch trigger?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Bonus Icons
				<ul>
					<li>If I play a Maleficorn (MM 040) that also has a damage icon on it, does its damage icon deal a bonus damage?</li>
					<li>If I play Bonesaw (MM 002) and that card has a damage icon on it that I use to destroy a friendly creature, will Bonesaw enter play ready?</li>
					<li>When I play Wild Bounty (MM392), is “bonus icons” referring to all the icons on a card, or just the icons added to that card by the enhance keyword?</li>
					<li>If I play a Shoulder Id (MM 257) with a bonus damage icon on it, does resolving that damage count as Shoulder Id dealing the damage, and therefore would that icon let me steal instead?</li>
					<li>If I play a Rad Penny (MM255) with a damage icon on it while no other creatures are in play, will that damage destroy Rad Penny before her "Play:" effect lets me steal 1 æmber?</li>
					<li>If I play a Rad Penny (MM255) with a damage icon and a draw icon on it while no other creatures are in play, will the damage destroy Rad Penny before I can resolve her draw icon?</li>
					<li>If I play a card with two bonus damage icons and my opponent has a 1 power creature with a ward counter, can I destroy that creature?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Chains
				<ul>
					<li>I have 2 chains and 7 cards in hand when moving to my draw cards step. Will I shed a chain during this step?</li>
					<li>I have 2 chains and 5 cards in hand when moving to my draw cards step. Will I shed a chain during this step?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>"Destroyed:" Effects
				<ul>
					<li>On my opponent’s turn they use their Yxilo Bolter (CoTA 204) to reap and choose to resolve its reap effect on my Bad Penny (CoTA 296). Is the Bad Penny purged or does it end up back in my hand?</li>
					<li>I have a Stealer of Souls (CoTA 098) in play and my opponent has a Valdr (CoTA 029). I use my Stealer of Souls to fight Valdr and both creatures are destroyed. Does the Stealer of Souls’ ability trigger?</li>
					<li>If Duma the Martyr (CoTA 242) and another of my creatures are both destroyed by a damage effect like Poison Wave (CoTA 280), can Duma the Martyr save my other creature from destruction?</li>
					<li>If I have out a Tolas (CoTA 103) when my Bad Penny (CoTA 296) is destroyed, do I gain Æmber even if Bad Penny goes to my hand instead of my discard pile?</li>
					<li>If my Jargogle (AoA 131) is destroyed on my turn and its “Destroyed:” ability lets me play a card with Omega, can I still play cards afterwards?</li>
					<li>If I have a 2-power creature with a Soulkeeper (AoA 83) attached, my opponent has a 6-power creature and a 5-power creature, and I play Opal Knight (AoA 260), do both of my opponent’s creatures die, or just the 6-power one?</li>
					<li>I have an Optio Gorkus (MM 226) in play with an Imperial Scutum attached and then I play a card that destroys all creatures. Can I use the “Destroyed:” effect on Optio Gorkus’s neighbors to move all Æmber on them to Optio Gorkus before I use the “Destroyed:” effect granted by Imperial Scutum to return all that Æmber to the common supply, keeping the æmber out of my opponent’s hands?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Do As Much As You Can
				<ul>
					<li>My opponent has a Banner of Battle (CoTA 020) in play. Can I play the card Poltergeist (CoTA 069) to destroy the Banner of Battle, even if the artifact can’t be used?</li>
					<li>I have no creatures in play and my opponent has two. Can I play the card Lost in the Woods (CoTA 327) even though I don’t have two creatures in play?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Drecker
				<ul>
					<li>If two Dreckers (MM 006) are neighbors and I fight one of them with my 2-power creature, what happens?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Elusive
				<ul>
					<li>If I use Gabos Longarms (CoTA 86) to attack a creature without elusive, can I use Gabos’s “Before Fight” ability to deal damage to an elusive creature instead, or will the elusive keyword prevent the damage?</li>
					<li>My Gabos Longarms (CoTA 86) attacks my opponent’s Æmber Imp (AoA 53). Is Gabos Longarms’ damage prevented by Elusive, or can I deal that damage to another creature?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Faygin
				<ul>
					<li>I have a Faygin (CoTA 300) in play and my opponent has an Urchin (CoTA 315) in play. I reap with Faygin and with its reap effect I choose my opponent’s Urchin. What happens?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>First Turn Rule
				<ul>
					<li>Its the first turn of the game and I am going first. I choose house Logos to be the active house and play the card Phase Shift (CoTA 117). Does this allow me to play another card this turn even though the First Turn Rule (see page 5) is in effect?</li>
					<li>Its the first turn of the game and I am going first. I choose house Logos to be the active house and play the card Wild Wormhole (CoTA 125). Can Wild Wormhole’s effect be resolved even though the First Turn Rule (see page 5) is in effect?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Flank
				<ul>
					<li>What happens if I use Spectral Tunneler (CoTA 133) on a non-flank creature (causing it to be considered a flank creature), then play Positron Bolt (CoTA 118) on that creature?</li>
					<li>If I have Sinestra (MM 047) and Dexus (MM 054) both out and my opponent has no creatures out, do they lose 2 æmber the first time they play a creature?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>"For Each"
				<ul>
					<li>I play the card Sack of Coins (AoA 312) with 3 Æmber in my pool. Can I divide the 3 damage among multiple creatures?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Key Hammer
				<ul>
					<li>My opponent forges two keys on their turn. On my next turn, I play Key Hammer (CoTA 66). What happens?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Leaves Play (Spangler Box)
				<ul>
					<li>I control a Spangler Box (CoTA 132) that has purged my own Kelifi Dragon (CoTA 037). The Spangler Box is returned to its owner’s hand with Grasping Vines (CoTA 324), but I don’t have any Æmber. Do I get my Kelifi Dragon back?</li>
					<li>A Scowly Caper (AoA 313) that I own and my opponent controls is purged with Spangler Box (CoTA 132). Later, the Spangler Box is destroyed. When Scowly Caper returns to play, whose control will he be under?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Lethal Distraction
				<ul>
					<li>I play two copies of Lethal Distraction (AoA 305), choosing the same creature each time. Later in the turn, I deal 1 damage to that creature. How much total damage does the creature take?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Library Access
				<ul>
					<li>I have chosen house Logos to be my active house this turn and start off by playing Library Access (CoTA 115), I then play Wild Wormhole (CoTA 125). In what order do I resolve this combination of effects?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Little Niff
				<ul>
					<li>I have a Ronnie Wristclocks (AoA 276) next to a Little Niff (AoA 289). I attack one of my opponent’s creatures with Ronnie Wristclocks, but he is destroyed during the fight. Does Little Niff’s ability still allow me to steal 1 Æmber?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Mimic Gel
				<ul>
					<li>If I play Mimic Gel (WC 170) copying a creature that has damage counters, +1 power counters, a ward counter, and an upgrade which gives it additional text, does Mimic Gel also copy the various counters and upgraded text?</li>
					<li>If I play Mimic Gel copying a Crash Muldoon (WC 327) will Mimic Gel enter play ready, and can I use the Deploy ability to have Mimic Gel enter play anywhere in my battleline?</li>
					<li>If I play Mimic Gel copying an Auto-Legionary that has been activated and is currently a creature, what does Mimic Gel become?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Moving Creatures
				<ul>
					<li>What happens if I use Replicator (CoTA 150) to trigger the reap effect of an opponent’s Sanctum Guardian (CoTA 256)?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Neutron Shark
				<ul>
					<li>My opponent has two creatures in play and I have none. I play Neutron Shark (CoTA 146) and use its play effect to destroy an enemy creature as well as the Neutron Shark. If the top card of my deck does not belong to house Logos, can I repeat Neutron Shark’s ability and destroy my opponent’s other creature?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Phase Shift
				<ul>
					<li>I have chosen house Logos to be my active house this turn and play a Phase Shift (COTA 117) then play another copy of Phase Shift. How many non-Logos cards can I play this turn?</li>
					<li>I choose Logos as my active house. I play Phase Shift (CoTA 117), then play a Mimicry (CoTA 328) as a copy of Foggify (CoTA 110). Can I still play another non-Logos card using Phase Shift’s effect?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Pitlord
				<ul>
					<li>I have the card Pitlord (CoTA 093) in play and my opponent plays the card Restringuntus (CoTA 094) and chooses house Dis. What happens when I try to declare my house on my next turn?</li>
					<li>I have a maverick Pitlord (CoTA 093) in play in a deck without house Dis. Am I forced to choose house Dis as my active house?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>[REDACTED]
				<ul>
					<li>If I put a 4th Æmber on [REDACTED] (AoA 139) through a method other than its own ability, can I immediately sacrifice it and forge a key?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Replacement Effects
				<ul>
					<li>I play the card Nerve Blast (CoTA 276) while my opponent has 2 Æmber in their pool and controls a Po’s Pixies (AoA 362). Am I able to deal 2 damage with Nerve Blast’s effect?</li>
					<li>My opponent has Sir Marrows (AoA 223) in play. If I play Dimension Door (CoTA 108) and then reap with a creature, does Sir Marrows capture the Æmber from the creature reaping?</li>
					<li>I have a creature with the upgrade Discombobulator (WC 149) on it, and my opponent has Gargantodon (WC 203). My opponent tries to steal one of my Æmber. What happens?</li>
					<li>I have Po’s Pixies (AoA 362) and my opponent has two copies of Sir Marrows (AoA 223). I reap with Po’s Poxies. Do both of the Sir Marrows capture Æmber from the common supply?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Rule of Six
				<ul>
					<li>If I play Mimicry (CoTA 328) as a copy of an action card in my opponent’s discard pile, which card does the Rule of Six apply to?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Shadow of Dis
				<ul>
					<li>My opponent plays Shadow of Dis (AoA 103), forcing me to treat my creatures’ text boxes as if they were blank until their next turn. I play Silvertooth (CoTA 311). Does Silvertooth enter play ready?</li>
					<li>My opponent plays Shadow of Dis (AoA 103). I have two copies of Glimmer (AoA 323) in my hand. May I play them both?</li>
					<li>My opponent plays Shadow of Dis (AoA 103). I have a Duskwitch (AoA 320) in my hand. May I play Duskwitch, then play other cards afterwards?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Shoulder Id
				<ul>
					<li>My Shoulder Id (MM 257) is attacked by a creature with 6 armor. Does Shoulder Id steal 1 Æmber?</li>
					<li>My Shoulder Id (MM 257) is attacked by a creature with skirmish. Does Shoulder Id steal 1 Æmber?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Sir Marrows
				<ul>
					<li>I have 2 Æmber in my pool and I reap with a creature. My opponent has 2 Sir Marrows (AoA 223) in play. Do both Sir Marrows capture an Æmber, and if so, where does the second one come from?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Stun
				<ul>
					<li>I have a stunned creature in my battleline, play the card Anger (CoTA 001), and choose to resolve its effect on that stunned creature. What happens?</li>
					<li>I play Smaaash (CoTA 046), but each of my opponent’s creatures is already stunned. Do I have to resolve the effect against Smaaash itself?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Survey
				<ul>
					<li>When I play Survey (MM 316), what happens to the card that I look at but do not discard?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>
				"This Way"
				<ul>
					<li>If I use Obsidian Forge (WC 025)'s action and choose to sacrifice one of my creatures that has a ward on it, will that creature reduce the cost to forge that key?</li>
					<li>If I use Saurian Egg (MM 210)’s "Omni:" ability and both the cards revealed are Saurian creatures, do they both come into play? Do they get three +1 power counters each?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Timing
				<ul>
					<li>I have Grasping Vines (CoTA 324) under Masterplan (CoTA 288). If I use Masterplan’s “Omni” effect to play Grasping Vines, can I return Masterplan to my hand before it is sacrificed?</li>
					<li>If a card like Gateway to Dis (CoTA 59) destroys multiple creatures and Tolas (CoTA 103) is one of those creatures, does anyone gain Æmber off of Tolas’ ability?</li>
					<li>I have Pingle Who Annoys (CoTA 43) and my opponent plays King of the Crag (CoTA 38). Will King of the Crag take a damage before Pingle is destroyed?</li>
					<li>I reap with Nexus (CoTA 305), and use my opponent’s Spectral Tunneler (CoTA 133) to give Nexus the ability “Reap: Draw a card.” Can I then trigger that “Reap” ability?</li>
					<li>My opponent has 10 Æmber and is about to forge their second key. I play Interdimensional Graft (CoTA 112). My opponent has Forgemaster Og (AoA 38) in play. On their turn they forge a key for 6 Æmber. What happens to their remaining 4 Æmber?</li>
					<li>When does the ability of the Encounter Suit (WC 330) trigger?</li>
					<li>If I have Siren Horn (MM 212) on a creature with Assault 2, and I attack an enemy creature with only 2 health remaining, does the Assault damage destroy them before or after I can move an Æmber onto them?</li>
					<li>If I play Pain Reaction (AoA 078) on an opponent's creature to destroy it, when is the damage dealt to its neighbors? If the creature has already left play, how do I know what its neighbors are?</li>
					<li>If I use Smite (AoA 224) to make my Firespitter (CotA 032) fight my opponent's 1 power creature which has 2 neighboring 1 power creatures, each of which has neighboring 2 power creatures on the flanks, will Smite kill the 2 power flank creatures?</li>
					<li>If I use Phalanx Strike (WC 189) and choose to exalt a friendly creature to repeat the damage effect, will this allow me to remove a ward counter from a creature and also damage the same creature?</li>
					<li>If I fight and destroy my opponent's Tolas (CotA 103) with Overlord Greking (CotA 087), after putting Tolas into play under my control, will Tolas's ability trigger?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Using Creatures
				<ul>
					<li>I have an exhausted Bumpsy (CoTA 030) in play and my opponent has no creatures in their battleline. I play the card Anger (CoTA 001) and choose to resolve it on Bumpsy. What happens?</li>
					<li>I have a Combat Pheromones (CoTA 180), “John Smyth” (CoTA 195), and Mindwarper (CoTA 196) in play. I sacrifice the Combat Pheromones and reap with the Mindwarper, and then reap with “John Smyth” and use “John Smyth’s” reap effect to ready the Mindwarper. Can I use the Mindwarper again?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Waking Nightmare
				<ul>
					<li>After I play Waking Nightmare (MM 017), if more Dis creatures then enter or leave play, will my opponent’s key cost change, or is it locked in when I played Waking Nightmare?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>Wild Wormhole &amp; Kelifi Dragon
				<ul>
					<li>I have 0 Æmber in my Æmber pool and have chosen house Logos to be my active house this turn. I play Wild Wormhole (CoTA 125) and try and play the top card of my deck is Kelifi Dragon (CoTA 037). What happens?</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
		</ul>

<!-- TODO card links -->
		<h2>0-Power Creatures</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>I play King of the Crag (CoTA 038) while my opponent has a Looter Goblin (CoTA 041) in play. What happens?</dt>
			<dd>
				The rules for damage state that <q>If a creature has as much or more
				damage on it as it has power, the creature is destroyed and placed on
				top of its owner’s discard pile.</q> When a creature has 0 power, if it has 0
				damage on it, it is destroyed.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Alpha</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				Can I play Mimicry (CoTA 328) as a copy of Eureka (AoA 128) if I have
				already played another card this turn?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. If Mimicry is played as a copy of Eureka, it will have the alpha
				keyword. Since you have already played another card this turn, you are
				not able to play an alpha card this turn and so the Mimicry will not be
				played and will go back to your hand instead.`
			</dd>

			<dt>
				Can I play Mimicry (CoTA 328) as a copy of Eureka (AoA 128) as the
				first thing I do during step 3 of my turn?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Mimicry is being played as a copy of Eureka and will have the Alpha
				keyword. Since you haven’t done anything else (played a card, discarded
				a card, or used a card) this turn you can still play the alpha card.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Archives</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				My opponent puts two of my creatures into their archives using the
				card Sample Collection (CoTA 175). On my next turn I play the card
				Dysania (CoTA 141). What happens?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Playing the Dysania will cause each of your opponent’s archived cards
				to be discarded, however since the Sample Collection states that when
				these creatures leave the archives they are put into their owner’s hand
				instead these cards are returned to your hand. Since these cards were
				not discarded by Dysania’s effect, you will not gain any Æmber from the
				resolution of that effect.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Armor</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have Shadow Self (CoTA 310) with a Raiding Knight (CoTA 255) as a
				neighbor. My Raiding Knight is then attacked by a 4 power creature.
				How much damage does each creature take in this situation?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				In this case, the Shadow Self will take 2 damage, the Raiding Knight will
				take no damage, and the 4 power creature will take 4 damage and be
				destroyed. This happens because before the damage can be dealt to
				the Raiding Knight, two of it is prevented by its armor. Then when the
				damage is actually being dealt, the damage that would be dealt to the
				Raiding Knight is dealt to the Shadow Self instead. At the same time as
				the Shadow Self is being dealt damage, the 4 power creature takes 4
				damage from the Raiding Knight’s power.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I use my Hallowed Shield (AoA 218) to protect my Maruck the
				Marked (AoA 220) from damage and then I attack my opponent’s
				3-power creature. Do I capture an Æember with Maruck’s ability?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Protection effects like Hallowed Shield prevent damage before
				armor. Maruck still has 1 armor left after the fight.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>"As If It Were"</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I reap with Nexus (CoTA 305), which allows me to use an opponent’s
				artifact “as if it were” mine. I choose to use my opponent’s Shard
				of Greed (AoA 315), which lets me gain 1 Æmber “for each friendly
				Shard.” Shard of Greed is the only Shard in play. How much
				Æmber do I gain?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				1. You are using Shard of Greed as if it were yours, so Shard of Greed
				counts itself as a friendly Shard for the purposes of its ability.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I reap with Replicator (CoTA 150), and use its ability to trigger the
				reap effect of my opponent’s Sequis (CoTA 257) as if I controlled it.
				Which player’s pool does Sequis capture Æmber from?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Sequis captures 1 Æmber from your opponent’s pool. You are using
				Sequis as if you controlled it, so the default capture rules cause the
				Æmber to be captured from your opponent’s pool.
			</dd>
		</dl>


		<h2>Bait and Switch</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				My opponent has 14 Æmber in their pool and I have 0 in mine. At
				the start of my turn I select Shadows as the active house and play
				the card Bait and Switch (CoTA 267). How many times does Bait and
				Switch trigger?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				In this situation, Bait and Switch’s effect will be triggered 2 times. When
				the effect is triggered for the first time time it checks if your opponent
				has more Æmber than you, and if they do it will repeat the first effect
				again, stealing another Æmber. However, since the card says to repeat
				the preceding effect and not the whole effect it can only ever trigger
				twice.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Bonus Icons</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				If I play a Maleficorn (MM 040) that also has a damage icon on it,
				does its damage icon deal a bonus damage?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Creatures are already in play before their bonus icons trigger, so in
				this case Maleficorn’s constant ability would be online before you deal
				damage with its bonus icons.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I play Bonesaw (MM 002) and that card has a damage icon on
				it that I use to destroy a friendly creature, will Bonesaw enter
				play ready?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Because Bonesaw is already in play before you resolve its icons, it
				will have already entered play exhausted.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				When I play Wild Bounty (MM392), is “bonus icons” referring to
				all the icons on a card, or just the icons added to that card by the
				enhance keyword?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				All icons. Even æmber icons that always appears on your card are
				considered bonus icons.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I play a Shoulder Id (MM 257) with a bonus damage icon on
				it, does resolving that damage count as Shoulder Id dealing the
				damage, and therefore would that icon let me steal instead?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Although the bonus icon is on Shoulder Id, Shoulder Id itself is not
				the source of that damage.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I play a Rad Penny (MM255) with a damage icon on it while no
				other creatures are in play, will that damage destroy Rad Penny
				before her "Play:" effect lets me steal 1 æmber?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. She will leave play before her "Play:" effect has a chance to trigger.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I play a Rad Penny (MM255) with a damage icon and a draw icon
				on it while no other creatures are in play, will the damage destroy
				Rad Penny before I can resolve her draw icon?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No, her draw icon will still resolve. Once a card has been played, all
				bonus icons on that card will resolve, even if the card leaves play.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I play a card with two bonus damage icons and my opponent has a
				1 power creature with a ward counter, can I destroy that creature?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Each damage icon resolves separately, so the first damage icon
				can remove the ward counter, and the second damage icon can then
				damage the creature.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Chains</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have 2 chains and 7 cards in hand when moving to my draw cards
				step. Will I shed a chain during this step?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No, you will not shed a chain during this draw cards step. Chains are
				only shed when a player would draw cards during the draw step and the
				chains prevent them from doing so (see “Chains” on Page 8). Since you
				already have 7 cards in your hand, you aren’t going to be drawing any
				cards, and thus don’t lose any of your chains.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I have 2 chains and 5 cards in hand when moving to my draw cards
				step. Will I shed a chain during this step?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes, you will shed a chain during this step. Chains are only shed when
				a player would draw cards during the draw step and the chains prevent
				them from doing so (see “Chains” on Page 8). You only have 5 cards in
				hand, and normally you would draw a card to refill your hand. However
				because of the chains you are prevented from drawing that card. Since
				you would normally have drawn the card and the chain prevented it, you
				then shed 1 chain.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2><span class="keyword">Destroyed</span> Effects</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				On my opponent’s turn they use their Yxilo Bolter (CoTA 204) to
				reap and choose to resolve its reap effect on my Bad Penny (CoTA
				296). Is the Bad Penny purged or does it end up back in my hand?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				The Bad Penny goes back to your hand. “Destroyed:” effects (see
				“Destroyed” on Page 10) happen immediately before a creature is
				destroyed, meaning that Bad Penny is back in its owner’s hand before
				the Yxilo Bolter can try to purge it with its reap effect. At that point,
				any pending effects waiting to resolve on Bad Penny no longer do. This
				is because Bad Penny is moving to an out-of-play zone in which the
				identity of cards is hidden from the opponent (see “Leaves Play” on
				Page 11).
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I have a Stealer of Souls (CoTA 098) in play and my opponent has a
				Valdr (CoTA 029). I use my Stealer of Souls to fight Valdr and both
				creatures are destroyed. Does the Stealer of Souls’ ability trigger?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No, the Stealer of Souls’ ability will not trigger. In order for the Stealer of
				Souls ability to trigger it must be in play, so if both the Stealer of Souls
				and the creature it is fighting die, they die simultaneously and the Stealer
				of Souls ability cannot trigger (see “Destroyed” on Page 10).
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If Duma the Martyr (CoTA 242) and another of my creatures are both
				destroyed by a damage effect like Poison Wave (CoTA 280), can
				Duma the Martyr save my other creature from destruction?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. If the damage causes Duma the Martyr and your other creature to
				both be tagged for destruction, healing that creature afterwards will not
				prevent its destruction.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I have out a Tolas (CoTA 103) when my Bad Penny (CoTA 296) is
				destroyed, do I gain Æmber even if Bad Penny goes to my hand
				instead of my discard pile?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Cards still count as being destroyed even if their “Destroyed:” effect
				moves them out of play.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If my Jargogle (AoA 131) is destroyed on my turn and its
				“Destroyed:” ability lets me play a card with Omega, can I still play
				cards afterwards?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Not usually. If Jargogle was destroyed during your Step 3 you may not
				play or use any more cards—just finish triggering any more triggered
				effects and then move on to the next step. If Jargogle was destroyed
				during your Step 1, however (for example, because you forged a key
				while Strange Gizmo (CoTA 134) was out), you only move on to Step 2,
				where you may then choose your house and move on to Step 3, where
				you are allowed to play and use cards again as normal.

			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I have a 2-power creature with a Soulkeeper (AoA 83) attached, my
				opponent has a 6-power creature and a 5-power creature, and I play
				Opal Knight (AoA 260), do both of my opponent’s creatures die, or
				just the 6-power one?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Just the 6-power one. Since Soulkeeper’s effect triggers before the
				destroyed creatures actually leave play, it will target the 6-power
				creature for destruction even though that creature is already tagged
				for destruction.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I have an Optio Gorkus (MM 226) in play with an Imperial Scutum
				attached and then I play a card that destroys all creatures. Can I
				use the “Destroyed:” effect on Optio Gorkus’s neighbors to move
				all Æmber on them to Optio Gorkus before I use the “Destroyed:”
				effect granted by Imperial Scutum to return all that Æmber to the
				common supply, keeping the æmber out of my opponent’s hands?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. The active player chooses the order of “Destroyed:” effects. If the
				creatures are being destroyed on your turn, you can send the Æmber
				from your destroyed creatures to the common supply, but if the creature
				are being destroyed on your opponent’s turn, they could choose the
				opposite order so that they get the Æmber from those destroyed
				creatures instead.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Do As Much As You Can</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				My opponent has a Banner of Battle (CoTA 020) in play. Can I play
				the card Poltergeist (CoTA 069) to destroy the Banner of Battle,
				even if the artifact can’t be used?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes, you can resolve the effect of Poltergeist on any artifact in play even
				if the artifact cannot be used. You just resolve as much of the card effect
				as you can (see “Resolve As Much As You Can” on Page 7), and to
				resolve this situation you just destroy the artifact.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I have no creatures in play and my opponent has two. Can I play the
				card Lost in the Woods (CoTA 327) even though I don’t have two
				creatures in play?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes you can. The “Resolve As Much As You Can” rule (see Page 7) says
				that you resolve as much of a card effect as possible and any part of a
				card you cannot resolve is ignored. In the context of Lost in the Woods,
				it means that you shuffle in as many of the creatures as you can. So in
				the case that your opponent has two or more creatures in their battleline
				and you have none, you will shuffle in two enemy creatures and no
				friendly creatures.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Drecker</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				If two Dreckers (MM 006) are neighbors and I fight one of them with
				my 2-power creature, what happens?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Both Dreckers simultaneously take 2 damage. Because the damage is
				only dealt once, it does not trigger any more instances of damage.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Elusive</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				If I use Gabos Longarms (CoTA 86) to attack a creature without
				elusive, can I use Gabos’s “Before Fight” ability to deal damage
				to an elusive creature instead, or will the elusive keyword prevent
				the damage?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Gabos Longarms can deal damage to an elusive creature using its ability.
				The elusive ability prevents damage only when the creature is attacked—
				because Gabos is not actually attacking the elusive creature, the elusive
				keyword will not protect it.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				My Gabos Longarms (CoTA 86) attacks my opponent’s Æmber Imp
				(AoA 53). Is Gabos Longarms’ damage prevented by Elusive, or can I
				deal that damage to another creature?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				You may still deal Gabos Longarms’ damage to another creature. Elusive
				only prevents damage dealt to the creature with the elusive ability during
				the fight.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Faygin</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have a Faygin (CoTA 300) in play and my opponent has an Urchin
				(CoTA 315) in play. I reap with Faygin and with its reap effect I
				choose my opponent’s Urchin. What happens?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Faygin’s effect causes the Urchin to try and go into your hand, however
				when a card leaves play it always goes to its owner’s corresponding out
				of play zone (See “Leaves Play” on Page 11) unless the card causing it to
				leave play specifies otherwise. The Urchin is returned to your opponent’s
				hand instead of yours.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>First Turn Rule</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				Its the first turn of the game and I am going first. I choose house
				Logos to be the active house and play the card Phase Shift (CoTA
				117). Does this allow me to play another card this turn even though
				the First Turn Rule (see page 5) is in effect?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Playing Phase Shift will allow you to play another card from your hand
				this turn, since the First Turn Rule can be modified by card effects.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				Its the first turn of the game and I am going first. I choose house
				Logos to be the active house and play the card Wild Wormhole
				(CoTA 125). Can Wild Wormhole’s effect be resolved even though
				the First Turn Rule (see page 5) is in effect?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Wild Wormhole’s effect can be resolved. The First Turn Rule specifies
				that players cannot play or discard more than one card from their hand.
				However it does not prohibit cards from being played or discarded from
				other game areas, such as your deck.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Flank</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				What happens if I use Spectral Tunneler (CoTA 133) on a non-flank
				creature (causing it to be considered a flank creature), then play
				Positron Bolt (CoTA 118) on that creature?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Positron Bolt will deal 3 damage to that creature. You will choose one of
				that creature’s neighbors to deal 2 damage to, and then deal 1 damage
				to the other neighbor of that second creature.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I have Sinestra (MM 047) and Dexus (MM 054) both out and my
				opponent has no creatures out, do they lose 2 æmber the first time
				they play a creature?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. The first creature they play will count as both on their left flank and
				their right flank, so both Dexus and Sinsestra’s abilities will trigger.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>"For Each"</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I play the card Sack of Coins (AoA 312) with 3 Æmber in my pool.
				Can I divide the 3 damage among multiple creatures?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Because Sack of Coins deals 1 damage “for each” Æmber in your
				pool, each point of damage may be assigned to a different creature.
				Key Hammer
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Hey Hammer</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				My opponent forges two keys on their turn. On my next turn, I play
				Key Hammer (CoTA 66). What happens?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Key Hammer only affects a single key. You will choose one of the two
				keys your opponent forged on their previous turn and unforge it.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Leaves Play (Spangler Box)</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I control a Spangler Box (CoTA 132) that has purged my own Kelifi
				Dragon (CoTA 037). The Spangler Box is returned to its owner’s
				hand with Grasping Vines (CoTA 324), but I don’t have any Æmber.
				Do I get my Kelifi Dragon back?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. The Kelifi Dragon is not being played when it is returned by the
				Spangler Box, it is being put into play. Being put into play bypasses the
				normal play restrictions, meaning that the Kelifi Dragon is put back into
				play no matter how much Æmber you have.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				A Scowly Caper (AoA 313) that I own and my opponent controls is
				purged with Spangler Box (CoTA 132). Later, the Spangler Box is
				destroyed. When Scowly Caper returns to play, whose control will he
				be under?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				When the Spangler Box returns Scowly Caper to play, this counts as
				“entering play” again, so Scowly Caper’s ability again causes you put it
				into play under your opponent’s control.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Lethal Distraction</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I play two copies of Lethal Distraction (AoA 305), choosing the
				same creature each time. Later in the turn, I deal 1 damage to that
				creature. How much total damage does the creature take?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				The creature takes 5 damage total: 1 from the initial damage, 2 from
				the first Lethal Distraction, and 2 from the other Lethal Distraction.
				Each Lethal Distraction's "additional" damage simply adds 2 to the
				original instance of damage; it is not its own, separate instance of
				damage. Therefore the Lethal Distractions will not trigger off of each
				other's damage.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Library Access</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have chosen house Logos to be my active house this turn and start
				off by playing Library Access (CoTA 115), I then play Wild Wormhole
				(CoTA 125). In what order do I resolve this combination of effects?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				<p>
					When you play a Wild Wormhole after playing a Library Access the following happens in this order:
				</p>
				<ol>
					<li>
						You gain 1 Æmber from Wild Wormhole’s Æmber bonus.
					</li>
					<li>
						Library Access’s effect and Wild Wormhole’s play effect are simultaneous, so you may resolve them in either order.
					</li>
					<li>
						You gain Æmber from any Æmber bonus on the card played from the top of your deck.
					</li>
					<li>
						If there are any play effects on the card played from the top of your deck, they are simultaneous
						with Library Access’s effect. You may resolve them in either order.
					</li>
				</ol>
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Little Niff</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have a Ronnie Wristclocks (AoA 276) next to a Little Niff (AoA 289).
				I attack one of my opponent’s creatures with Ronnie Wristclocks, but
				he is destroyed during the fight. Does Little Niff’s ability still allow
				me to steal 1 Æmber?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Little Niff’s neighbor does not need to survive in order for Little Niff
				to steal the Æmber.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Mimic Gel</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				If I play Mimic Gel (WC 170) copying a creature that has damage
				counters, +1 power counters, a ward counter, and an upgrade
				which gives it additional text, does Mimic Gel also copy the various
				counters and upgraded text?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Mimic Gel enters play as a copy of the base card, unmodified by any other effects.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I play Mimic Gel copying a Crash Muldoon (WC 327) will Mimic Gel
				enter play ready, and can I use the Deploy ability to have Mimic Gel
				enter play anywhere in my battleline?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes to both. Mimic Gel enters play as a copy of the chosen card, and
				both Deploy and Crash Muldoon’s “enters play ready” ability take effect
				as the card enters play, so Mimic Gel will also copy these effects.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I play Mimic Gel copying an Auto-Legionary that has been
				activated and is currently a creature, what does Mimic Gel become?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Mimic Gel becomes a 5-power creature that can be used as if it
				belonged to the active house.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Moving Creatures</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				What happens if I use Replicator (CoTA 150) to trigger the reap
				effect of an opponent’s Sanctum Guardian (CoTA 256)?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Sanctum Guardian’s reap effect will do nothing. A creature cannot be
				moved from one player’s battleline to the other player’s battleline except
				by effects that explicitly change control of that creature.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Neutron Shark</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				My opponent has two creatures in play and I have none. I play
				Neutron Shark (CoTA 146) and use its play effect to destroy an
				enemy creature as well as the Neutron Shark. If the top card of my
				deck does not belong to house Logos, can I repeat Neutron Shark’s
				ability and destroy my opponent’s other creature?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. The destruction of Neutron Shark and the first enemy creature
				resolves fully before you proceed with the rest of Neutron Shark’s ability.
				Because Neutron Shark is no longer in play, its Play/Fight/Reap ability
				cannot be triggered again.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Phase Shift</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have chosen house Logos to be my active house this turn and play
				a Phase Shift (COTA 117) then play another copy of Phase Shift.
				How many non-Logos cards can I play this turn?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				You can play two non-Logos cards this turn. Each copy of Phase Shift that
				you play allows you to play an additional non-Logos card.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I choose Logos as my active house. I play Phase Shift (CoTA 117),
				then play a Mimicry (CoTA 328) as a copy of Foggify (CoTA 110). Can
				I still play another non-Logos card using Phase Shift’s effect?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Phase Shift grants you permission to play 1 non-Logos card this turn.
				Playing Mimicry uses up this effect, as you would not have been able to
				play Mimicry without Phase Shift’s effect
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Pitlord</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have the card Pitlord (CoTA 093) in play and my opponent plays the
				card Restringuntus (CoTA 094) and chooses house Dis. What happens
				when I try to declare my house on my next turn?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				On your next turn, during the choose a house step, you will be in a
				position where you must choose house Dis (because of the Pitlord), but
				also cannot choose house Dis (because of the Restringuntus). Cannot
				effects have precedence over must effects, thus you cannot choose Dis.
				(see “Cannot Vs Must” on Page 9.) You may still choose either one of
				your other houses though.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I have a maverick Pitlord (CoTA 093) in play in a deck without house
				Dis. Am I forced to choose house Dis as my active house?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. You cannot choose an active house unless it is on your identity card
				or you control a card of that house. This restriction overrides Pitlord’s
				effect, allowing you to choose any of your houses as your active house.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>[REDACTED]</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				If I put a 4th Æmber on [REDACTED] (AoA 139) through a method
				other than its own ability, can I immediately sacrifice it and forge
				a key?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. [REDACTED] has a single ability that triggers after you choose
				Logos as your active house, placing 1 Æmber on it then allowing you
				to sacrifice it and forge a key if there are 4 Æmber or more on it. You
				cannot use the "forge a key" part of the ability independently.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Replacement Effects</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I play the card Nerve Blast (CoTA 276) while my opponent has 2
				Æmber in their pool and controls a Po’s Pixies (AoA 362). Am I able
				to deal 2 damage with Nerve Blast’s effect?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Po’s Pixies has a replacement effect that changes where the stolen
				Æmber is taken from (the common supply instead of its controller’s pool).
				However, that Æmber is still considered to be “stolen,” and therefore
				the “if you do” condition of Nerve Blast has been satisfied.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				My opponent has Sir Marrows (AoA 223) in play. If I play Dimension
				Door (CoTA 108) and then reap with a creature, does Sir Marrows
				capture the Æmber from the creature reaping?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No, in this case the effect of gaining the Æmber from reaping is being
				replaced by stealing Æmber from your opponent. This means that you
				aren’t getting Æmber directly from the reap and your opponent’s Sir
				Marrows will not be able to capture it.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I have a creature with the upgrade Discombobulator (WC 149) on it,
				and my opponent has Gargantodon (WC 203). My opponent tries to
				steal one of my Æmber. What happens?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Nothing happens. Discombobulator means that your Æmber cannot be
				stolen, so there will be nothing for Gargantodon’s replacement effect to
				replace. Your opponent’s steal effect will fail.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I have Po’s Pixies (AoA 362) and my opponent has two copies of
				Sir Marrows (AoA 223). I reap with Po’s Poxies. Do both of the Sir
				Marrows capture Æmber from the common supply?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Each of the Sir Marrows sees the Æmber that you gain from reaping,
				and both will try to capture it. Normally only one of them would be
				able to successfully capture it, however, because Po’s Pixies replaces
				the capture attempt with a capture from the common supply, when the
				second Sir Marrows attempts to capture the same specific Æmber, it is
				still available. Therefore both of the Sir Marrows will attempt to capture
				the same Æmber, one by one, and each attempt will be replaced with a
				capture from the common supply.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Rule of Six</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				If I play Mimicry (CoTA 328) as a copy of an action card in my
				opponent’s discard pile, which card does the Rule of Six apply to?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				For the purposes of the Rule of Six, you are considered to have played
				the copied card.
			</dd>
		</dl>


		<h2>Shadow of Dis</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				My opponent plays Shadow of Dis (AoA 103), forcing me to treat my
				creatures’ text boxes as if they were blank until their next turn. I play
				Silvertooth (CoTA 311). Does Silvertooth enter play ready?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Shadow of Dis only affects creatures while they are in play.
				Silvertooth’s ability modifies how it enters play, so it is in effect before the
				Shadow of Dis effect applies to it.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				My opponent plays Shadow of Dis (AoA 103). I have two copies of
				Glimmer (AoA 323) in my hand. May I play them both?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Alpha is a play restriction that is active while in your hand before
				playing the card. After you have played a card in a step, you may not
				play an Alpha card even if its text box will be considered blank once it is
				in play.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				My opponent plays Shadow of Dis (AoA 103). I have a Duskwitch
				(AoA 320) in my hand. May I play Duskwitch, then play other
				cards afterwards?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes, you can continue to play, use, and discard cards after playing
				Duskwitch. Omega is an effect that occurs after a card is played. By
				that point, Duskwitch is in play and under the effect of Shadow of Dis,
				meaning it no longer has the Omega ability.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Shoulder Id</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				My Shoulder Id (MM 257) is attacked by a creature with 6 armor.
				Does Shoulder Id steal 1 Æmber?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Shoulder Id's ability is a replacement effect that ocurs any time
				Shoulder Id would attempt to deal damage, even if another card's effect
				would end up preventing that damage. This applies to armor, ward,
				invulnerable, and "cannot be dealt damage" effects such as Shield of
				Justice (CotA 225).
			</dd>

			<dt>
				My Shoulder Id (MM 257) is attacked by a creature with skirmish.
				Does Shoulder Id steal 1 Æmber?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Shoulder Id's replacement effect does not occur in situations when it
				would not attempt to deal any damage. This applies when it is attacked
				by a creature with skirmish, or if Shoulder Id gains elusive and is attacked
				for the first time in a turn.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Sir Marrows</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have 2 Æmber in my pool and I reap with a creature. My opponent
				has 2 Sir Marrows (AoA 223) in play. Do both Sir Marrows capture an
				Æmber, and if so, where does the second one come from?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Sir Marrows can only capture the 1 Æmber that was just gained from
				reaping. The active player determines which Sir Marrows captures
				the Æmber.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Stun</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have a stunned creature in my battleline, play the card Anger
				(CoTA 001), and choose to resolve its effect on that stunned
				creature. What happens?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				<p>
					If a card (such as Anger in this case) allows you to use a creature and
					if the creature you are trying to use is stunned, you remove the stun
					instead of doing anything else. Since Fighting is a type of being used the
					creature is exhausted and the stun counter is removed.
				</p>
				<p>
					This will even work if your opponent has no creatures in play, because
					unstunning replaces the normal “use” (in this case fight) of the card before it begins.
				</p>
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I play Smaaash (CoTA 046), but each of my opponent’s creatures
				is already stunned. Do I have to resolve the effect against
				Smaaash itself?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. You may still choose to resolve Smaaash’s “Play:” effect against one
				of your opponent’s creatures, however you cannot put a stun counter on
				an already stunned creature so nothing will happen.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Survey</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				When I play Survey (MM 316), what happens to the card that I look
				at but do not discard?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Just put it back on top of your deck. By default, if you are instructed to
				look at a card and not do anything else with it, it will return to the same
				spot it was in previously.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>"This Way"</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				If I use Obsidian Forge (WC 025)'s action and choose to sacrifice one
				of my creatures that has a ward on it, will that creature reduce the
				cost to forge that key?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. If they are not “destroyed this way” they do not reduce the key cost.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I use Saurian Egg (MM 210)’s "Omni:" ability and both the cards
				revealed are Saurian creatures, do they both come into play? Do
				they get three +1 power counters each?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes and yes. Sometimes the egg contains twins!
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Timing</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have Grasping Vines (CoTA 324) under Masterplan (CoTA 288). If I
				use Masterplan’s “Omni” effect to play Grasping Vines, can I return
				Masterplan to my hand before it is sacrificed?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Masterplan’s effect allows you to play the card beneath it before
				sacrificing Masterplan. Masterplan is still in play at the time you play
				Grasping Vines, and therefore can be returned to your hand using
				Grasping Vines’s effect.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If a card like Gateway to Dis (CoTA 59) destroys multiple creatures
				and Tolas (CoTA 103) is one of those creatures, does anyone gain
				Æmber off of Tolas’ ability?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Tolas’ ability does not trigger until cards are actually put into discard
				piles, at which point Tolas is already destroyed.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I have Pingle Who Annoys (CoTA 43) and my opponent plays King
				of the Crag (CoTA 38). Will King of the Crag take a damage before
				Pingle is destroyed?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Because King of the Crag’s ability is a constant, its effect applies
				as long as it’s in play and destroys Pingle before Pingle’s “after it enters
				play” effect can trigger.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I reap with Nexus (CoTA 305), and use my opponent’s Spectral
				Tunneler (CoTA 133) to give Nexus the ability “Reap: Draw a card.”
				Can I then trigger that “Reap” ability?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. You are still at the timing point to trigger Nexus’s “Reap” abilities,
				so it can now trigger the ability granted by Spectral Tunneler.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				My opponent has 10 Æmber and is about to forge their second
				key. I play Interdimensional Graft (CoTA 112). My opponent has
				Forgemaster Og (AoA 38) in play. On their turn they forge a key for 6
				Æmber. What happens to their remaining 4 Æmber?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				The effect of Interdimensional Graft and Forgemaster Og both occur at
				the same time step (after the key is forged), so the active player (your
				opponent) chooses which to resolve first.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				When does the ability of the Encounter Suit (WC 330) trigger?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Encounter Suit’s ability occurs after an action card is played and its
				Æmber bonus is resolved, at the same timing point as other effects that
				occur “after” an action card is played. However, the active player must
				trigger Encounter Suit’s effect before triggering the “Play:” effect on that
				action card.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I have Siren Horn (MM 212) on a creature with Assault 2, and I
				attack an enemy creature with only 2 health remaining, does the
				Assault damage destroy them before or after I can move an Æmber
				onto them?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Assault damage occurs at the same timing point as "Before Fight:"
				abilities, so the active player (you) gets to choose which order to resolve
				them in.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I play Pain Reaction (AoA 078) on an opponent's creature
				to destroy it, when is the damage dealt to its neighbors? If
				the creature has already left play, how do I know what its
				neighbors are?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Pain Reaction is an exception to the rule that all damage from an ability
				is dealt simultaneously, because it explicitly establishes that the damage
				is dealt after the destroyed creature leaves play. This damage is dealt
				to whatever creatures were the neighbors of the destroyed creature
				immediately before it left play.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I use Smite (AoA 224) to make my Firespitter (CotA 032) fight
				my opponent's 1 power creature which has 2 neighboring 1 power
				creatures, each of which has neighboring 2 power creatures on the
				flanks, will Smite kill the 2 power flank creatures?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Smite's damage effect refers to the neighbors that the defending
				creature had immediately before leaving play. As the 1 power defending
				creature will leave play at the same time as its 1 power neighbors due to
				Firespitter's Before Fight ability, Smite's damage effect will fail because
				the creatures it refers to are no longer in play.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I use Phalanx Strike (WC 189) and choose to exalt a friendly
				creature to repeat the damage effect, will this allow me to remove a
				ward counter from a creature and also damage the same creature?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes. Phalanx Strike is an exception to the rule that all damage from an
				ability is dealt simultaneously, because it explicitly establishes that the
				damage effect repeats a second time. This allows you to use the first
				instance of damage to remove a ward from a creature, and then use the
				repeated effect to deal damage to the same creature.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				If I fight and destroy my opponent's Tolas (CotA 103) with Overlord Greking (CotA 087), after putting
				Tolas into play under my control, will Tolas's ability trigger?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				No. Tolas has a constant ability that is active only while it is in play. Because Tolas is not in play
				at the time it is destroyed, its constant ability will not resolve.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Using Creatures</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have an exhausted Bumpsy (CoTA 030) in play and my opponent
				has no creatures in their battleline. I play the card Anger (CoTA 001)
				and choose to resolve it on Bumpsy. What happens?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				The Bumpsy will be readied by the effect of Anger, but since there are no
				enemy creatures in play it cannot be used to fight so it stays ready. The
				creature can then be used as per the standard rules.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				I have a Combat Pheromones (CoTA 180), “John Smyth” (CoTA
				195), and Mindwarper (CoTA 196) in play. I sacrifice the Combat
				Pheromones and reap with the Mindwarper, and then reap with
				“John Smyth” and use “John Smyth’s” reap effect to ready the
				Mindwarper. Can I use the Mindwarper again?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				Yes, Combat Pheromones is granting permission to use a creature
				during that turn. If you have an effect that readies one of the Mars cards
				affected by the Combat Pheromones (Such as “John Smyth”), you will be
				able to use that card again.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Waking Nightmare</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				After I play Waking Nightmare (MM 017), if more Dis creatures then
				enter or leave play, will my opponent’s key cost change, or is it
				locked in when I played Waking Nightmare?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				The key cost will change. This is a lasting effect that will update every
				time the board state changes.
			</dd>
		</dl>

		<h2>Wild Wormhole; Kelifi Dragon</h2>
		<dl>
			<dt>
				I have 0 Æmber in my Æmber pool and have chosen house Logos to
				be my active house this turn. I play Wild Wormhole (CoTA 125) and
				try and play the top card of my deck is Kelifi Dragon (CoTA 037).
				What happens?
			</dt>
			<dd>
				The Kelifi Dragon is returned to the top of the deck. Kelifi Dragon has a
				play requirement of needing to have 7 Æmber in your Æmber pool, and
				since you didn’t have any initially (you now have 1 from playing the Wild
				Wormhole) you don’t have enough to be able to play the Kelifi Dragon.
				Since you can’t play the card it is returned to the place you tried to play
				it from, in this case the top of the deck.
			</dd>
		</dl>
	</body>
</html>